Rita – Hey Tina? Is it you?

Tina – Oh Rita! How are you? It’s been a long time.

Rita – I am fine, what about you? Yes, we last met during the board exams.

Tina – I’m good too.

Rita – What are you doing now?

Tina – Well, I have started my undergraduate studies in English Honours at St. Xaviers College in Mumbai.

Rita – Wow! You finally got to study the subject you loved the most in school.

Tina – True. What about you Rita? Wasn’t History your favourite subject?

Rita – You guessed it right. I took up History Honours in Lady Shri Ram College for Women in Delhi.

Tina – That’s nice. I am so happy for you.

Rita – I am happy for you too. Let’s meet up again soon.

Tina – Yes, sure! We have a lot to catch up on.

Rita – Bye for now. I have to pick up my sister from tuition. Take care.

Tina – Bye, will see you soon.

Sample Conversation 2 – A Telephonic Conversation Between Two Friends about a Reunion
Jay – Hello? Am I talking to Prateek Agarwal?

Prateek – Hello. Yes, I am Prateek Agarwal. May I ask who is speaking?

Jay – Prateek, it’s me Jay Roy from college. Remember?

Prateek – Hey Jay, how are you? It has been such a long time.

Jay – I am doing good. Yes, four long years after college. I got your contact number from Piyush. You remember him, right?

Prateek – Yes, yes, I do remember him. Wasn’t he the one who topped our engineering batch last year?

Jay – Yes, that’s him! He’s in Boston working for a big MNC now.

Prateek – Wow! Good for him.

Jay – The main reason I called you up is because I am planning to organise a reunion of our batch and wanted to know if you could make it.

Prateek – Really? Yes, I would love to attend the reunion. Just let me know the time and venue.

Jay – Do you remember the auditorium of our college where we had our orientation program?

Prateek – How can I forget that auditorium? We all have spent so much time in that place over the years.

Jay – That’s the place for our reunion. I called up the college regarding this and they gave us permission to have the reunion there. In fact, some of our professors might also be there. I’ve sent out invitations to them too.

Prateek – Splendid! I am eagerly looking forward to the reunion.

Jay – I have to contact a few others too. I will let you know the details within two days. Meet you soon. Bye

Prateek – Sure, Bye.

Sample Conversation 3 – Between Two Friends Discussing a Movie
Anjali – Hi, Raj. How was your weekend?

Raj – Hey, Anjali. My weekend was great. I watched a great movie.

Anjali – Oh really? What was the name of the movie you watched?

Raj – I watched Avengers Endgame. It is the last movie of the Avengers.

Anjali – Oh, I have watched Avengers Endgame too. I loved the movie.

Raj – Really? Who is your favourite Avenger?

Anjali – I can’t name one! Iron Man, Thor, Captain America, Captain Marvel, Scarlet Witch and Black Widow, to name a few.

Raj – Wow, you have some of the strongest Avengers there! I have the same choice except that I loved Spider Man too.

Anjali – My sister took me to see the movie as soon as it was released. Both me and my sister have been great fans of Avengers since childhood.

Raj – Oh wow! I am myself a big fan of Avengers and have watched all the movies. I too wanted to go to the theatre and watch the movie, but I was out of station for a family function.

Anjali – Oh I see. The movie stood up to all the expectations that the audience had after watching the trailer. In fact, I would say the movie surpassed expectations.

Raj – Very true. There was no better way to finish the Avengers, I believe. The movie just took me through a rollercoaster of emotions.

Anjali – True! Just when I was feeling happy that the Avengers got rid of Thanos for good, the next moment I was bawling my eyes out seeing Iron Man had sacrificed himself to save the world and everyone else.

Raj – We can’t ever see Black Widow, Iron Man and Captain America ever in any Marvel movies.

Anjali – Yes, very sad. Anyway it was nice talking to you. See you tomorrow in school. Bye.

Raj – Same here. Bye.