Rohit: Hi, what’s your name?

Arjun: Hey, I am Arjun. What bout you?

Rohit: I am Rohit. So, what’s new, Arjun?

Arjun: Just looking forward to the first class. Mr Rawat will be teaching us financial management, right?

Rohit: Oh yes, he also takes the psychology class, by the way.

Arjun: Yeah, I came to know about it today. He is quite a martinet. We will have to be on our toes all the time!

Rohit: Indeed. I went through the syllabus. Some subjects really require a lot of practice.

Arjun: Yes. Our specialization in financial markets is good though. Probably better than most general MBA courses.

Rohit: Yeah right. So Arjun, where do you come from?

Arjun: I hail from Chandigarh, where my family lives. I have taken a PG in Dwarka for this course. What about you?

Rohit: I am from Delhi itself. I put up in East Delhi, near Anand Vihar. I stay with my family.

Arjun: How do you commute? By the metro?

Rohit: Yes, metro is the best option for students. Also, the university has decided to reimburse 50% of the metro fare, which was recently hiked. So it the recommended option plus quite safe.

Arjun: Wow, that’s good. I travelled by the bus today. It was so hot and stuffy. I will also opt for the metro if you say it is that good.

Rohit: It indeed is. Air conditioning and the trip duration is also really short. Saves a lot of time.

Arjun: Great. So Rohit, which field have you graduated in? I am curious to know the mix of students here. I have done B.Com (hons) from Panjab University.

Rohit: I have done B.Tech in Computer Science from MDU Rohtak. Worked in a couple of companies but the software field did not interest me. I want to explore the world of finance.

Arjun: Good to hear that. The technical sector, especially IT, is becoming really saturated by the day. It is better to shift to a management role.

Rohit: Absolutely correct. I felt my work experience was not helping my professional growth. So I quit and appeared for CAT.

Arjun: I am a fresher, by the way. I hope to learn a lot and get placed in a good company in the second year.

Rohit: I have heard that placements are quite good at this college. Last year, 90% of students got job offers from Deloitte, EY, KPMG, EvalueServe, WNS and other consultancies.

Arjun: That’s good to hear. By the way, what electives have you opted for?

Rohit: I will go for financial journalism and depository operations. Actually, I am keen to get into the media line also.

Arjun: Wow, that’s cool! I will opt for Advanced Technical Analysis and Option Trading Strategies.

Rohit: Ah, you are looking for an advisory role in the future. Sensible decision. It pays a lot! We can also share notes in the final semester and benefit from our shared experiences.

Arjun: Sure thing! I am keen to expand my professional network as much as possible. Didn’t the Dean mention that networking was the single most important thing that we would do during our course?

Rohit: Oh yes, she did say that. Networking is very important. I also hope to participate in some interesting activities here. They have the drama club, elocution and literary club and stuff like that.

Arjun: Extra-curricular activities are really important. I will also get myself enrolled in some of these clubs.

Rohit: What about your hobbies? What do you do in your spare time?

Arjun: I have diverse interests. I like to travel, dabble around in photography and love watching movies and TV shows.

Rohit: That sounds great. I am a bit of an amateur photographer myself. Check out my page on Facebook ‘Passion of Celluloid’.

Arjun: I will do so! Here is my contact number. Will discuss a lot of stuff after class.

Rohit: Cool! I will drop a message. Great to connect with you. I guess sir has arrived. Talk to you soon.

Arjun: Likewise! Yes, let’s talk after class.